CG Agenda for 2025-05-28 (#733)
solid/specification: meetings/2025-05-28.md

* JW: There is a grant proposal to NLNet that was made to do a similar thing for Shapes
* JW: We had discussion last week, Michiel wanted to be able publish vocab in 20 min. Extending conversation from solid/vocab issues hanging unresolved.
* JW: There has been discussion on the mailing list, around URN, w3id.org, etc. I had a quick conversation with Tim; we can create definitelytyped-style repository. Anyone would be able to create a PR that creates a new vocab document. When you create a new vocab, you become owner of that vocab and responsible for creating subsequent PRs. Once they are merged into that repo, they would be published in W3C namespace, e.g., w3c.org/ns/solid/recipes 
* JW: We would use it as a way to help us align on the vocabs.
* eP: I would need to look up the last conversation. I don't think I want to publish terms that may be thrown out in the w3c namespace. There is a risk of getting duplicates, like multiple vocabs for calendars. Is it something for long term, or something that will be thrown away?

> * JW: It is not intended for terms that people will throw away; it is meant for long-lived vocabs. One practice could be that once you start creating an app, you would create a recipes vocab document, and put any terms there that you already stablized. When you still have early-stage term, you would wait to publish it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JW: It is not intended for terms that people will throw away; it is meant for long-lived vocabs. One practice could be that once you start creating an app, you would create a recipes vocab document, and put there any terms that you already stablized. When your term is still early-stage, you would wait to publish it.
```

* eP: Who makes the decision whether something is stable?
* JW: You pretty much trust people. I don't think there will be an issue with creating multiple vocabs. We would create statistics on which vocabs are being used by which apps. 
* eP: I would trust people's intentions, but be careful with their semweb knowledge.

> * JW: We could create a basic set of guardrails. I agree it doesn't solve all the issues; ontology creation is complex. We could look at having maybe one or two maintainers, possibly with support of ODI.
> * HZ: The enthusiast in me says great. I'm worried about using W3C namespace. People may get the wrong impression about stability based on that. I'm not sure what the *solid* vocabulary means. Do we have infrastructure for it? Do we have a stamp of aproval?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JW: We could create a basic set of guardrails. I agree it won't solve all the issues; ontology creation is complex. We could look at having maybe one or two maintainers, possibly with support of ODI.
* HZ: The enthusiast in me says great. I'm worried about using W3C namespace. People may get the wrong impression about stability based on that. I'm not sure what the *solid* vocabulary means. Do we have infrastructure for it? Do we have a stamp of approval?
```

> * JW: To respond about W3C namespace, one potential mitigation would be to have a clear warning. W3C could say no, anyway. It would be useful to have a stable home. I was proposing w3id.org, and Tim suggested W3C instead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JW: To respond about W3C namespace, one potential mitigation would be to have a clear warning. W3C could say no, anyway. It would be useful to have a stable home. I was proposing w3id.org, and Tim suggested W3C instead.
* [TT (after meeting): One advantage of w3id.org is that it's strictly a redirect service, not an actual host environment. Vocabs could change their actual deployment host without breaking any active use. W3C seems an odd host for non-W3C projects, even if Solid sprang from there.]
```

* JW: I can take action to set up a new repo or reuse solid/vocab. I could put in place github actions to lint PRs. We also need to work out best practices, RDFS, OWL, etc. I could set up actions to automate approvals and assign reviewers.
* PAC: I'm concerned about making it available to people and ensuring that we follow best practices. I applaud the initiative. I also wanted to point out, there is a project done by colleagues — Ontology development methodology, https://github.com/Wimmics/olivaw. Probably targeting more semweb aware audience than app developers. 

### [JW] Vocabs, Ontologies and Shapes (background for above discussions)

* JW: Quick reminder about reasoning, and why we have ontologies.
  1. Define a formal model of how things relate to one onother and provide semantics. For example, if I know someone, this is a symmetric relation.
  2. Align meaning of terms. Collaborative and descriptive process. Formally defining them helps with that alignment. Once you have it, you can reason about it using inference.

  For example: with OWL, we have a set of rules. I have them here in N3 notation 

> * eP: those rules? https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/REC-owl2-profiles-20121211/#Reasoning_in_OWL_2_RL_and_RDF_Graphs_using_Rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [TT (after meeting): Be cautious with considering things like "I know someone" to be symmetric. Also, with the meaning of "know". RDF predicates based don English lexical stings should not automatically be treated as if the meaning of the English word is the meaning of the predicate, especially where there may be nuances or simply multiple meanings of the English word. I may "know" a musician from the radio, but I need not have ever met them, and they need not "know" me.]
* eP: These rules? https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/REC-owl2-profiles-20121211/#Reasoning_in_OWL_2_RL_and_RDF_Graphs_using_Rules
```

> 
> * JW: Showing some reasoning results based on `owl:SymmetricProperty`
> 
>   In Solid server, we don't apply any inference; clients/apps would need to apply reasoning to do the inference. We could also use it for schema alignment.
> 
>   Shapes come in to allow us to get a view of this data that is useful for the application. When I have a shape which is using FOAF, I can apply inference to get extra facts. 
> 
>   Having those shapes, we can use tools like LDO to get objects based on those shapes. 
> 
> * eP: When it comes to writing what do you write, what's asserted and infered?
> * JW: When I write I wouldn't write anything infered. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* JW: Showing some reasoning results based on `owl:SymmetricProperty`
* ... In Solid server, we don't apply any inference; clients/apps would need to apply reasoning to do the inference. We could also use it for schema alignment.
* ... Shapes come in to allow us to get a view of the data that is useful for the application. When I have a shape which is using FOAF, I can apply inference to get extra facts.
* [TT (after meeting): Inferred triples should not be automatically accepted as facts. They should be assigned less credence than "physical" triples. It's reasonable to consider them as "propositions", which may be confirmed or rejected by humans or by further inference processes.]
* JW: Having those shapes, we can use tools like LDO to get objects based on those shapes.
* eP: When it comes to writing what do you write, what's asserted and inferred?
* JW: When I write I wouldn't write anything inferred.
```
